# daily_lou
Design:

Instead of using Swift, I decided to use Flutter and Dart which allow for Android and iOS development. While I haven’t implemented the development for Android yet, I wanted to leave that door open. I had never heard of Dart before so much of the process was learning about the language - AI played an important role in furthering my understanding. AI also helped me with coding the project. For the title, I have Dart syntax to create the title of the page. The title is just the date. I had to import a package to be able to get and format it as I wanted. I made the theme of the title purple. All of the code I wrote is in main.dart or pubspec.yam(this was only to add dependencies).

To start, I wanted one main page of my project. In my code, YourWidgetState has the bulk of the code. In this class, I have a variable for the article list. This was helpful as it allowed me to access the list in different functions within the class. For example, I could clear the list if the refresh was called and then go on and in a different function populate the list. Then, in a widget within the class, I could display the articles inside the list. Initially, I had the list as a global variable, but having it within a class that incorporates all the widgets and functions that need to reference the list seemed more efficient. 

Within that class, I had multiple functions. “Initstate” played the important role of setting the app up when it was initially loaded. At this point the user has not refreshed the page, so “fetchNews” hasn’t been manually called - “Initstate” proactively calls “fetchNews” so the app has articles when it first boots up. RefreshNews is also similar - it calls fetchNews and waits for it to be finished. 

The build widget within the MyHomePageState sets up how the page looks. I decided to create a vertical stack which is why I used a column. If articleList is empty, a loading circular loading symbol is shown. Otherwise, the articles are ready to be displayed. I have an else statement for this that includes a container, a basic way to display things in Dart. From there, I have code that displays the hyperlinked article title and also the content of the article (a snippet). 

My function fetchNews does exactly what it sounds like. This is where the API is called to get articles. Using a news’ API that I signed up for, I use a try-and-catch statement (catching errors if the API query does not work). If it is successful, I randomly select 8 articles. Through experience, it seemed like the articles were sometimes in a certain order, so I decided to shuffle them before selecting them. At the end of this function I “setState” so the app knows it should update the interface with the new articles (when the user refreshes, fetchNews is called, and “setState”  is what causes new articles to show up). I have else statements here in case there are errors throughout this process. I also check to make sure that the value of the selected articles is not null; if it is, I don’t include it.

All these functions then play into the final and main class: _MyHomePageState. This class efficiently brings together most of the code. It displays the title at the top. Then in the body, I have a SingleChildScrollView which allows the user to scroll on the screen. This is crucial as the height of my page is more than the height of a phone, so the user needs to be able to scroll. The body is formatted so there is padding for the text to make it look less cramped. From there, MyWidget is called which in turn populates the page with the articles. Finally, in main, “runApp” runs the app so it can be used. 

